---
layout: note
title: "A01: NFL Play-by-play"
due: "Sep 4, 11:59pm"
categories: [assignments]
---

# A01: NFL Play-by-play

This assignment helps you practice with the SQL "select" query. We'll use a
dataset of NFL play-by-play statistics downloaded from
[NFLsavant.com](http://nflsavant.com/about.php). You will only query one table,
`nflpbp`, in the `cinf201` database.

## Tasks

In a single file named `A01.sql`, write four "select" queries that meet the
following criteria:

1. Select unique game dates, sorted by date.
2. Select offense and defense teams from games on Thanksgiving day of
   2015 (Nov 26), in which a touchdown occurred (by the team on offense);
   do not sort the results.
3. Select the first 10 descriptions in which a fumble occurred.
4. Select unique pairs of penalty type and penalty yards for penalty
   types that are not blank, and order by penalty yards so that the
   greatest penalty yards is first.
   
The exact desired output can be discovered by running the test program
(see below). Your SQL queries must produce the desired output to earn
full credit.


## Example starting script

Create a text file named `A01.sql` and write your SQL queries in this
file, one per line. Be sure to finish each query with a
semicolon. Start with `use cinf201;` to be sure you are accessing the
correct database.

Here is an example of some random queries:

~~~ sql
use cinf201;

select GameDate from nflpbp limit 10;

select Quarter, Minute, Down from nflpbp limit 10;
~~~

You can test your script in two ways:

- manually: on londo, run `mysql < A01.sql`
- using my testing script: on londo, run `cinf201-test A01`

## Submission

Run this command from the same directory as your `A01.sql` file. It will automatically run the tester.

~~~
cinf201-submit A01
~~~

## Tester

You can run the tester without submitting with the following command. Again, run this command from the same directory as your `A01.sql` file.

~~~
cinf201-test A01
~~~

## Hints

You can learn about the columns and datatypes of the `nflpbp` table by running this query in MySQL:

~~~ sql
describe nflpbp;
~~~
