---
layout: note
title: "A02: Billboard Top 10"
due: "Sep 7, 11:59pm"
categories: [assignments]
---

# A02: Billboard Top 10

This assignment helps you practice "insert", "select", "update", and "delete" queries. We'll use a simple dataset of Billboard top songs for the [week of July 23, 2016](http://www.billboard.com/charts/hot-100/2016-07-23).

## Preparation

Here is the song data:

| Artist | Song | This week position | Last week position |
|-
| Drake ft. WizKid & Kyla | One Dance | 1 | 1 |
| Justin Timberlake | Can't Stop The Feeling! | 2 | 2 |
| The Chainsmokers ft. Daya | Don't Let Me Down | 3 | 3 |
| Calvin Harris ft. Rihanna | This Is What You Came For | 4 | 5 |
| Sia ft. Sean Paul | Cheap Thrills | 5 | 6 |
| Desiigner | Panda | 6 | 4 |
| Rihanna | Needed Me | 7 | 7 |
| twenty one pilots | Ride | 8 | 9 |
| Kent Jones | Don't Mind | 9 | 8 |
| Fifth Harmony ft. Ty Dolla $ign | Work From Home | 10 | 10 |

You will create the billboard\_top10 table in your personal database, e.g., jeckroth\_cinf201 (but your username instead).

Use the following commands to create the table in the MySQL console, or place these commands in your script:

~~~ sql
use cinf201_jeckroth;
drop table if exists billboard_top10;
create table billboard_top10 (
    artist varchar(200) not null,
    song varchar(200) not null,
    this_week_pos int not null,
    last_week_pos int
);
~~~

## Tasks

1. Insert all the song data listed in the table above, in the order shown in the table. Then run `select * from billboard_top10;` to show all the data in the order inserted.
2. Show all songs (artist and song name) that have moved up the chart over the week; keep the order of songs the same as the original table.
3. Swap the "this week" positions of Desiigner and Kent Jones' songs. (You might need multiple queries.) Then run `select * from billboard_top10 order by this_week_pos;`
4. Show all data from songs that involve Rihanna (either as sole artist or featured); use a "LIKE" function in your "where" clause for this purpose; sort by this week pos, ascending.
5. Copy every "this week" position to "last week", then update all "this week" positions to 1+ their prior value. Eliminate any songs whose "this week" position is greater than 10. Then run `select * from billboard_top10 order by this_week_pos;`
6. Add a new song at position 1: artist = Justin Bieber, song = Baby, this week pos = 1, last week pos = null. Then run `select * from billboard_top10 order by this_week_pos;`

## Testing

~~~
cinf201-test A02
~~~

## Submission

~~~
cinf201-submit A02
~~~

