---
layout: note
title: "A08: Twitter clone"
due: "Apr 15, 11:59pm"
categories: [assignments]
---

# A08: Twitter clone

In this assignment, you will build a website that behaves like Twitter.

## Task

The website requirements are as follows:

- On the home page, show recent tweets. Each tweet contains the message, the user's name, and the date and time.
- Clicking the user's name shows all tweets by that user, most recent first.
- On every page, there should be a search box at the top, and the search results page shows tweets that contain the search words (most recent first).
- On every page, there should be a "New Tweet" link at the top, which has a textbox for typing a tweet; a username may be typed in a box also (anybody can make up any username). The website should refuse to save the tweet if the username is missing or the tweet text is missing.
- Make the website visually attractive using Bootstrap.

There is no need to have user "accounts" with passwords and so on. I'll talk about this stuff in class but it's not required for this assignment.

Copy starting files from `/home/jeckroth/cinf201/webdemo-todoapp` on londo.

## Deliverables

You must turn in:

- table creation commands in a SQL file (use your personal `cinf201_yourname`) database; your tables must be normalized
- website Python code (using Flask)
- website templates

## Flask ports

Run your website with the following command, but changing the port to your designated port:

```
FLASK_APP=main.py flask run --port=5026
```

| Name | Port |
|---
|Mussaed|5001|
|Turki|5002|
|Muhannad|5003|
|Abdulrahman|5004|
|Hassan|5005|
|Yazeed|5006|
|Jesus|5007|
|Mohammed|5008|
|Abdullah|5009|
|Dominic|5010|
|Benjamin|5011|
|Greg|5012|
|Mikhail|5013|
|Charles|5014|
|Mac|5015|
|Tam|5016|
|Hans|5017|
|Kassaundra|5018|
|Mike|5019|
|Nicanor|5020|
|Musab|5021|
|Raian|5022|
|Waleed|5023|
|Khalid|5024|
|Deanna|5025|

## Tester

There is no tester. I will look at your code and use your website on your port.

## Submission

~~~
cinf201-submit A08
~~~


