---
layout: note
title: "A10: Social network"
due: "Nov 14, 11:59pm"
categories: [assignments]
---

# A10: Social network

This assignment helps you practice secure database design and website coding. You will be tasked with designing a database and simple website for a "social network."

## Tasks

You are required to build a website that interacts with a database. You have two options:

- Use PHP on londo, as described below.
  - You can see my example code at `/var/www/html/cinf201fa2016/jeckroth/security-demo-good` on londo.
- Use your own host and any programming language. You are required to use a relational database (MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, etc.) and I must be able to see your tables and relations (or you can give me a screenshot or diagram). You must also show me your code (perhaps on github or similar).

Your social network must support:

- Creation of user accounts. An account must have a username (or email) and password.
- Login/logout mechanism.
- After logging in, the user should see his/her "feed," like Facebook. This should show any recent posts (say, 10 most recent) from his/her friends.
- Ability for a user to post a new item, which will appear on their friends' feeds. A post should contain some text, and possibly other info if you want (title? "mood"? etc.).
- Ability to visit any user's feed. This feed will only show that user's recent posts.
- Ability to friend/unfriend a person.
- Ability to see a list of friends for any user. Show a count of friends at the top of the list.
- Everything that would normally be linked should be linked. Think of the design of Facebook. E.g., in the list of friends, the name of the friend should be a link to the friend's feed.

You do not need to support photos, though I encourage everyone to explore how that may be done. Emoji support would be nice, too (but not required); [here is a guide for adding Emoji support](https://blog.farrant.me/adding-emoji-support-to-any-website/).

Additional requirements:

- You must store passwords securely.
- You must not allow any SQL injections.
- Your tables must be normalized.
- Your website must be fully functional, but it does not need to be pretty.

## Notes

If you plan to use londo rather than your own webhost, write your code in the directory `/var/www/html/cinf201fa2016/jeckroth` where `jeckroth` is changed to your username. E.g., start the project like this:

```
cd /var/www/html/cinf201fa2016/myusername
nano myfile.php
```

After creating a file, you'll need to run:

```
cinf201-fixwebperms
```

If you get this error:

```
Warning: Unknown: failed to open stream: Permission denied ...
```

…then you forgot to run:

```
cinf201-fixwebperms
```

Visit your website at [https://londo.stetson.edu/cinf201fa2016/jeckroth/myfile.php](https://londo.stetson.edu/cinf201fa2016/jeckroth/myfile.php) or similar (change the username and php filename).

## Submission

**Do not run the submit script.** I will look at your code in `/var/www/html/cinf201fa2016/yourusername`. I will also look at your site in my browser.